# Environmental Genomic Selection 
A well-established tool for genomics-enabled plant breeding is genome-wide selection (GS). In many GEA analyses, the standard GWAS model is modified to use explicit bioclimatic data instead of trait phenotypic values as the response variable, in what is known as environmental GWAS (E-GWAS) (Anderson et al., 2016). While standard GWAS has become an important method for understanding the genetics of complex traits in crops, it is less useful as a plant breeding selection tool, since only a fraction of heritable polygenic variation may be detected (Li et al., 2021). Instead, many breeding programs now use GS, which estimates the effect of genomewide markers simultaneously and predicts the breeding value or total genetic merit of individuals (Meuwissen et al., 2001; Lorenz et al., 2011). Similarly, although E-GWAS can aid in understanding the genetic architecture of local adaptation and potentially identifying loci that confer tolerance to abiotic stresses, the evidence of the polygenic nature of local adaptation (Yeaman, 2022) suggests that E-GWAS will also insufficiently detect the total genetic variation to be the most useful to plant breeders. There is a similar conceptual and practical advance to be made by moving from E-GWAS to environmental genomewide selection (E-GS) to estimate the whole-genome adaptive value of an individual to bioclimatic conditions. 


- Anderson JE, Kono TJY, Stupar RM, Kantar MB, Morrell PL. Environmental association analyses identify candidates for abiotic stress tolerance in Glycine soja, the wild progenitor of cultivated soybeans. G3: Genes, Genomes, Genetics. 2016;6(4):835–843. doi:10.1534/g3.116.026914.
- Li, X., Guo, T., Wang, J., Bekele, W. A., Sukumaran, S., Vanous, A. E., et al. (2021). An integrated framework reinstating the environmental dimension for GWAS and genomic selection in crops. Molecular plant, 14(6), 874-887.
- Lorenz, A. J., Chao, S., Asoro, F. G., Heffner, E. L., Hayashi, T., Iwata, H., et al. (2011). Genomic selection in plant breeding: knowledge and prospects. Advances in agronomy, 110, 77-123.
- Meuwissen, T. H., Hayes, B. J., & Goddard, M. (2001). Prediction of total genetic value using genome-wide dense marker maps. genetics, 157(4), 1819-1829.
# Developing Your Core Collection 
The ideal training population for germplasm collections is what is termed the 'core collection' (Brown et al., 1989; Yu et al., 2016). Core collections and mini-core collections try to maximize the amount of genetic diversity in the smallest number of accessions (Frankel and Brown, 1984). The development of core and mini-core collections allows a sufficiently diverse subset of a germplasm collection to be evaluated phenotypically for many traits of interest across different environments.

- Frankel, O.H., Brown, A.H.D., 1984. Plant genetic resources today: a critical appraisal. In: Holden, J.H.W., Williams, J.T. (Eds.), Crop Genetic Resources: Conservation and Evaluation. Allen and Unwin, Winchester, pp. 249–257.
- Brown, A. H. D. (1989). Core collections: a practical approach to genetic resources management. Genome, 31(2), 818-824.
- Yu, X., Li, X., Guo, T., Zhu, C., Wu, Y., Mitchell, S. E., et al. (2016). Genomic prediction contributing to a promising global strategy to turbocharge gene banks. Nature plants, 2(10), 1-7.
